---
title: "Enhancing Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy in a Virtual Reality: A Prospective Interventional Study"
excerpt: '{B Kim&#42;, <u><strong>D Jeong*</strong></u>}, YS Choi, YY Choi, H Kim, K Han (&#42;equal contribution) <br> <span style="color: #9370db"><strong>Scientific Reports</strong></span> <em>SCIE (IF=3.9, JCR=17.3%)</em> <br> <a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-025-01359-7" target="_blank" style="background:#576A8F; color:white; padding:2px 8px; border-radius:6px; text-decoration:none; font-size:0.75rem; font-weight:700;">DOI</a>'
date: 2025-09-09
categories:
  - HCI
  - Digital Healthcare
  - Virtual Reality
tags:
  - Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy
  - Data Analysis
  - Depression
---

<span style="color: #9370db"><strong>Scientific Reports</strong></span>

{B Kim\*, <u><strong>D Jeong*</strong></u>}, YS Choi, YY Choi, H Kim, K Han(*equal contribution)

**Abstract**

The increasing prevalence of depression has highlighted Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) as an effective treatment. However, conventional MBCT has several limitations, including barriers to access, the need for trained professionals, and inconsistent levels of participant engagement. The feasibility of using Virtual Reality (VR) for MBCT has emerged as a promising solution, but further research is needed to assess its therapeutic potential. This study examines the potential of VR-based treatment as an approach for individuals with depression. We developed and evaluated introductory mindfulness exercises and a three-session VR-MBCT program and conducted a feasibility study. Using the Meta Quest Pro and the E4 wristband, we collected data from 73 participants and analyzed feasibility, engagement, and behavioral patterns. Results showed high concentration levels, distinct emotional responses, and unique interaction patterns in individuals with depression. While survey data showed no significant differences between individuals with depression and individuals without depression in terms of the usability and presence of VR, sensor data showed higher entropy in electrodermal activity for individuals with depression, suggesting better emotional confrontation. Overall, our study highlighted the user-friendly and immersive aspects of VR-MBCT and its feasibility and potential applicability for individuals with depression.

**Screenshots of Introductory Mindfulness Exercises and three sessions of VR-MBCT**

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/VR-MBCT_Figure1.jpg" alt="VR-MBCT Screenshots" caption="(a) introductory mindfulness exercise, (b) starry expressions, (c) self as context, and (d) acceptance. Due to security restrictions during the Korea Food and Drug Administration (KFDA) clinical trials, we were unable to include screenshots of the actual VR content. Instead, we have used processed VR content screenshots to facilitate understanding of the paper." %}
